It's time for another bug hunt.
And you know what that means.
What you should do if you haven't already done this is go through each cell of code in this script and
find and fix all of the errors and just be mindful.
As with previous bug hunts that there are some explicit Python coding errors and there are some other
places where it's not really an error per say but it's probably not the right thing to show or maybe
not the best thing to show.
So then you still can feel free to change some of the code based on what you think should be shown.
All right so I'm going to get started here we can see we're already importing none pie and map plot
lib.
So run that so here we are producing a plot of random numbers and it looks like it's supposed to be
an image.
So let's run this cell and see what happens.
Okay.
Module num pi is no attribute rent.
And actually the.
Function random n is contained in a sub module called random.
So this has to be num pi not random random.
Okay.
Now this is kind of technically correct in the sense that we don't get any errors but it's hard to interpret
this one pixel wide image of these random numbers.
I think a better way to visualize these random numbers is just with a regular plot.
This reveals the key features of a normal distribution of random numbers such as a mean zero 0 a standard
deviation that is plausibly one and you can see that a lot of the numbers are close to zero and there
are fewer numbers that are further away from zero.
In fact maybe this will even look better as square as something like this anyway.
That looks pretty good to me.
Okay.
So here.
Let's see this says create an image of I think that's also an Arab that said an English error not a
python error of a matrix of random integers between and including 3 and 20.
Now I haven't actually told you how to use this function rant in this course.
I haven't introduced this to you but we can just try running this code and see what happens.
Okay so this is data type not understood.
So that's not a super informative error message.
I'm gonna look at the DOC string the help file for this function and see what it says.
This is a return random integers from low inclusive to high exclusive.
So if we want random integers between 0 and 20 including 20 or 3 instead of 0 and 20 inclusive then
actually this is not going to be correct.
So we need this to be 21 in order to get numbers to go up to 20.
Furthermore this is the size just as a third input and then the fourth input is actually the data type.
So now we can understand this error message better.
Python is saying data type not understood well the data type is in the fourth input there is no such
data type as 20.
All right so the two things we need to do to fix this are to make these two Matrix sizes be a single
input and I'm doing that here by making them a tuple and then we also need to change this to be 21.
So now the numbers go the integers go from three inclusive to 21 exclusive which means that they will
include numbers up to 20.
Okay so here we get our matrix of random numbers and just to show that these about these two boundaries
really are what we want them to be.
I'm going to print out the maximum value the largest value in math and indeed that is 20.
Very nice.
So here it looks like we're supposed to create a hundred random phase angles.
So between 0 and 2 pi and show unit vectors with those angles.
So as always I start by just running this code and seeing what kind of errors we get.
On this line we get named Pi is not defined.
Actually we want and p dot pi and then.
Okay so one hundred random phase angles there's probably a hundred in here but these should be distributed
all around the circle which means varying from zero to two pi.
Now I see the two pi in here but actually look at this.
These are uniform distributed numbers between 0 and 1.
But then I'm just adding them to 2 pi.
In fact we need to multiply or scale by 2 pi.
So there's that.
OK so that looks a little bit better.
Except the instructions here say to show unit vectors and these are not unit vectors.
These are just individual dots so to create unit vectors we actually need to specify two points.
A start point and a stop point so the start point I'll say is zero for the phases.
And more importantly for the magnitude that has to go from 0 to 1.
So huh.
Okay.
So we we still don't really get vectors.
We just got a bunch of overlapping circles in the middle.
And the problem now is that the marker is just indicated as being a circle.
What we want is a circle plus a line.
So there you go.
Something that looks like this.
This reminds me of like cotton candy or I don't know something at a circus.
You ever seen that movie killer clowns from outer space.
Hi on.
I knew it was terrible movie.
Anyway let's move on.
I'm going to consider this exercise to be finished.
So here we get an instruction that says create an outward spiral using phase angles and amplitude.
Okay.
That's pretty cool.
I'm curious to see what the outward spiral looks like.
So here looks like we are creating some amplitude that vary from 0 to 1 and phases.
So P is variable p 4 phases from 0 to 4 pies.
That's going to be two full cycles and let's see what name.
A not.
Aha.
That's a pretty simple one to fix.
So it's actually a capitalization problem.
Okay now that is a pretty disappointing outward spiral.
It doesn't really look like it's spiraling at all.
What is the problem here.
The problem is actually that we're using the plot function but we really should be using the polar function
so that looks like an outward going spiral.
And now I would just like to make this a little bit look to make this look a little bit nice so let's
make the line magenta and then I'm going to turn the Axis off and then peel it that show.
Okay now the final thing is gonna beat make this line a little bit thicker about 3.
Now that looks like an outward going spiral.
I like that convert radians to degrees.
Let's see I'll just run this code OK so we do get numbers.
We don't get any explicit Python coding errors but let's see if we can figure out what is the issue
with this code.
So I think the issue with this code is that this variable is called Rad and we are using the function
rad to deg to convert radians to degrees.
Now the numbers 1 through 360 are not technically wrong as radians.
These are plausible numbers that could be radians.
However it looks like these are degrees 1 to 360 seem like degrees instead of radians.
So I'm actually going to change this.
Let's say point 0 0 1 up to 2 times num pi dot pi.
So these are definitely a range of values that you would expect for radians and then we can convert
them to degrees.
And this also looks correct.
So we go from something you know it's a little bit higher than is pretty close to zero which corresponds
to this first one and then the last one should be two pi and that over here four degrees is three hundred
and sixty it's actually three point six but then it's times one hundred.
Okay.
So here we see the famous equality in trigonometry.
So there is something about cosine and sign of angles the same angles.
I think that this is supposed to be cosine squared plus sine squared equals one.
However this is actually cosine times two.
I don't think there's any trigonometry equality that is cosine times two plus sine times two.
So let's make this squared and then oh these are definitely not all equal to how we do get one one in
here but the rest of them are and ends.
Now what is going on here.
Let's look at this.
So we are getting a warning message.
Something about dividing by zero encountered in log ten okay.
So the problem is either with this expression or this expression.
Now this one here certainly isn't problematic.
This one here actually is problematic and that's because we are trying to take the log of zero.
But the log of zero is minus infinity or something.
It's not really a rational number it's not a number that exists.
So I think what we can do is just make this a very small number that is definitely greater than zero.
And then we see that we get a whole vector full of one's okay last cell.
This is our last bug hunt.
Well not the last bug hunt for this course of course just the last one for this particular section.
So let's see create Oilers number.
So let's just run this and see what happens.
OK.
So we get a plot and we don't get any python errors and the plot kind of looks OK.
We get a a line but let's see if we can match up these parameters so first of all M is point five.
But the magnitude here is not point 5.5 is actually around here.
And the angle is pi over four and pi over four corresponds to 45 degrees.
This is also not correct.
Huh.
I see at least one problem here.
So if we look at the the health texts the doc string for to teed up polar you can see that the inputs
are theta and R so theta is the angle and r is the radius.
So actually these two inputs are swapped.
This should be the angle and this should be the magnitude.
All right.
And now it's going to work.
Oh no it still doesn't work.
So why doesn't it work.
Why doesn't this vector match the features that I specified here.
Actually the problem is here.
What is Oilers formula Oilers formula is m times e to the I fee or theta or K.
So we have these backwards here.
So this is supposed to be m times e to the 1 J.
Or in math terms you would call that I times P.
Aha.
This looks better.
Now we see on the radial axis this line goes out.
Point five which is what we specify here.
And the direction and the angle of this vector is forty five degrees which is the same thing as pi over
four.
Great.
That concludes this bug hunt.
I hope you enjoyed it.